Ingredients
For the Beef and Stock:

1 pound (450g) bone-in or boneless beef chuck roast, cut into 2-inch pieces
1 medium red onion (about 6 ounces; 175g), thinly sliced
2 tablespoons ground crayfish (see notes)
2 teaspoons (6g) Diamond Crystal kosher salt, plus more to taste; for table salt use half as much by volume or the same weight 
1/2 teaspoon Nigerian red dry pepper
For the Egusi Soup: 

1 medium red onion (about 6 ounces; 175g), roughly chopped
1/2 fresh habanero or Scotch bonnet pepper, stemmed (optional)
2 cups (10 ounces; 300g) ground egusi seeds (see notes)
3/4 cup unrefined red palm oil (5 1/4 ounces; 150g), such as Obiji
Kosher salt and Nigerian red dry pepper
1 teaspoon ground crayfish (see notes)
3 1/2 ounces (100g) fresh pumpkin leaves, amaranth greens, or kale, rinsed and finely chopped (see note)
3 1/2 ounces (100g) fresh waterleaf or spinach, rinsed and finely chopped (see note)
1 tablespoon finely chopped fresh or dried bitter leaf or fresh dandelion greens (see notes)

Directions
For the Stock: In a medium pot, combine beef, onion, crayfish, salt, red pepper, and 6 1/2 cups water and bring to a boil. Lower heat to maintain a simmer and cook until the stock is slightly reduced and the beef is mostly tender, about 45 minutes (the beef will tenderize further when cooked in the soup). Using a slotted spoon, remove beef and transfer to a medium heatproof bowl; set aside. Reserve stock (you should have about 5 1/2 cups).

For the Egusi Soup: In a food processor or countertop blender, process onion, habanero pepper (if using), and 1/4 cup water until smooth. Scrape into a medium bowl and stir in ground egusi seeds. Add water, 1 tablespoon at a time, until a thick, creamy paste has formed (paste should be viscous and hold its shape). Set aside.

Onion, pepper, and water blended to form a paste in the bowl of a food processor next to a plate of egusi paste..
In a 4-quart saucepan, heat oil over low heat for 1 minute. Slowly add all of the reserved stock, along with crayfish, and bring to a gentle simmer. Add paste, 1 heaped teaspoon at a time, to stock. Cover and cook, stirring and gently scraping the bottom of the pot occasionally, until all paste is firm and crumbly, about 25 minutes (patches of orange-red palm oil may bubble on top or around sides).

Add reserved beef and stir gently to break up the cooked paste into curds (stirring more or less affects the size of the curds). Season with salt and pepper to taste. Continue to cook until beef is heated through and tender, and some orange-red palm oil pools on top, about 10 minutes.

Mound pumpkin leaves and waterleaf on top of soup without stirring, then cover and let steam until greens are wilted, about 2 minutes. Stir in wilted greens. Add bitter leaf and cook until soft, about 8 minutes. 

Divide soup among warmed bowls and serve hot or at room temperature with eba, lafun, dodo, or cooked white rice.