Ingredients
For the red and green salsas
4 tomatillos, husked and rinsed
3 roma tomatoes
1/2 small yellow onion, halved
2 jalapeno peppers, stems removed (seeds removed if you don’t want it spicy)
2 cloves garlic
5 sprigs cilantro
1 teaspoon kosher salt, divided, plus more to taste
2 teaspoons olive oil, divided
For the eggs
1 tablespoon olive oil
4 large eggs
cotija cheese or queso fresco, for garnish
cilantro, for garnish

Instructions
Add the tomatillos, tomatoes, onion halves, jalapeno peppers and garlic cloves to a medium pot.
Fill the pot with water until the ingredients are completely covered and bring to a boil over high heat.
Reduce heat to low, cover, and simmer for 5 minutes. Drain and set aside.
Make the red salsa by adding the cooked roma tomatoes, 1 onion half, 1 jalapeno pepper, 1 clove garlic, and 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt to a blender. Blend until smooth.
Heat 1 teaspoon olive oil in a small pot over medium-high heat. Carefully pour in the blended red salsa and lightly fry for 1 minute, stirring often. Transfer to a bowl, taste, and season with more salt if necessary. Cover and set aside.
Make the green salsa by adding the cooked tomatillos and the remaining 1 onion half, 1 jalapeno pepper, 1 clove garlic, 5 sprigs cilantro, and 1/2 teaspoon kosher salt to a blender. Blend until smooth.
Heat the remaining 1 teaspoon olive oil in a small pot over medium-high heat. Carefully pour in the blended green salsa and lightly fry for 1 minute, stirring often. Transfer to a bowl, taste, and season with more salt if necessary. Cover and set aside.
Fry the eggs by heating 1 tablespoon olive oil in a large nonstick skillet over medium heat. Carefully crack in the eggs, keeping them separate, and cook for 3 minutes, or until the whites are set. Remove from heat.
Place 2 eggs onto a plate. Spoon half of the red salsa around one of the eggs and half of the green salsa around the other egg. Garnish with a sprinkle of cotija cheese or queso fresco and some chopped cilantro. Serve with a side of refried beans and warm corn tortillas.