INGREDIENTS
2 tbsp butter
1 medium fresh poblano chile quartered lengthwise, seeds and stem removed, thinly sliced crosswise
1 small onion, chopped into 1/4-in. pieces
3 garlic cloves, finely chopped
1 medium (6 oz.) tomato, cored and chopped into 1/4 in. pieces
1 or 2 fresh hot green chile (such as serrano or jalapeño), finely chopped (optional)
1 pound smallish shrimp (51-60 per pound), peeled, deveined if you wish, chopped into 1/2 in. pieces
2 tsps Worcestershire
1 generous tbsp tomato paste
kosher salt
4 cups mexican melting cheese (such as Chihuahua, quesadilla or asadero) or Monterey Jack, brick or mild cheddar
12 corn tortillas or 8 (8-in.) flour tortillas
2 tbsp vegetable oil (to brush or spray on corn tortillas only)


INSTRUCTIONS

Make the flavoring base.  In a large (10-inch) skillet over medium heat, melt the butter.  Add the sliced poblano and chopped onion and cook, stirring regularly, until softened and lightly browned, 5-7 minutes.  Stir in the garlic, cook for 1 minutes, then add the tomato and optional serrano or jalapeño and cook until the tomatoes are completely soft, about 2-3 minutes more.  

Cook the shrimp.  With the skillet still over medium heat, stir in the shrimp.  Cook, stirring frequently, just until the shrimp turn from translucent to milky white, 2-3 minutes.  Add the Worcetershire and stir until evaporated. Remove from the heat and stir in the tomato paste and cilantro, then taste and season with salt, usually about 1 ½ teaspoons.  

Make the tacos.  Heat a large griddle or very large (12-inch) heavy skillet over medium-high.  Working in batches, brush or spray one side of a corn tortilla with oil, lay it oiled-side down on the hot surface, sprinkle with a portion of cheese, top with a portion of the shrimp, fold over and bake, flipping regularly, until the cheese has melted and the tortilla is mostly crisp, about 2-3 minutes. (If using flour tortillas, there is no need to oil them.) As the tacos are finished, you can hold them on a baking sheet in a low oven for a few minutes, but they are at their peak when they come right off the griddle.  I think these tacos are complete as is, but some may want to sprinkle on Mexican hot sauce.